
##Evaluating Digital Humanities Projects:  The Buddhist Canons Research Database

####Introduction  
Databases and archives are some of the most foundational digital humanities projects.  They are critical resources for researchers, professors, students, and the public.  As a History major, I use databases frequently in order to find secondary and primary sources for my research.  Since these databases are so essential to academia and the advancement of knowledge, it is equally as essential to critique these digital humanities project themselves.  In this review, I will focus on the Buddhist Canons Research Database (BCRD).  I first focus on elements of concept and content, examining the goals of the database in relation to the information it provides.  Next, I analyze the aesthetic and techniqual functions of the database, including design and search capability.  Lastly, I evaluate the documentation of collaboration and present a summary of my review.  

####Concept & Content
The BCRD is a searchable database designed to be a bibliographical reference resource for texts within the Tibetan Buddhist Cannon.  It was developed by the American Institute for Buddhist Studies and the Columbia University Center for Buddhist Studies in order to facilitate research of the vast canonical literature found in the Tibetan Buddhist tradition.  To achieve this goal, the database provides searchable bibliographical references, internal crosslinks, and links to external digital sources.  While the BCRD is not necessarily a digital archive, it is a useful resource for researchers who wish to search for both bibliographical information and digital sources from other archives. 

####Design & Technique
For a researcher who is not familiar with Buddhist literature, the BCRD can be overwhelming due to its limitations in language, lack of search engine capability, and the underdevelopment in the layout of bibliographical information.  Since a large portion of Buddhist literature is not available in English, users cannot use English in the search engine.  The search engine itself is not as advanced as other research tools I have used before.  It contains the basic ways to limit the search by type of canonical literature, author, title, and phrase, but lacks the capacity to search by year or full text availability.  If you do find external full texts using the basic search, you can search within those external full texts without needing to leave the BCRD itself.  This allows for shortened research time.  Aesthetically speaking, the database has room to grow.  Without prior experience with the database itself or Buddhist literature, it can be hard to understand the organization of search the results and bibliographical information.  For this reason, the database is targeted more towards specialized researchers and not the public.  While the database may not be meant for casual researchers, the project does reach towards its goal of advancing the availability of sources within the Buddhist Canons. 

####Collaboration & Documentation
If you follow the link for the BCRD directly from the DH Awards website, you land on the "About" page, not the search engine itself.  While this is not necessarily the best way to present the database, it does provide users with a clear history of the project.  The BCRD was first developed as a private reference tool in 1994.  Since then it has slowly developed into a searchable bibliographical resource.  Added features include full text external links to canonical works and commentaries, a redeveloped search engine, and changes is web design.  Therefore, this project does seem capable of evolving further even in the light of various technological changes.  The BCRD lists its editors and partners, as well as other DH projects that help it reach its goals, such as the Asian Classics Input Project (ACIP), the Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center (TBRC), and the Sastravid Indian Philosophy Research System.  This project is clearly stated as ongoing, with hopes of expanding the availability of texts and overall design.

####Conclusion
The Buddhist Canon Research Database is a solid digital humanities project that has the capability to grow and develop.  Its goal of expanding the avaibilty of Buddhist literature is a lofty one, but one that is not impossible to achieve.  The content that it provides is already substantial and can be a useful bibliographical reference tool for specialized researchers. The project can grow the most in its search engine design and aesthetic layout.  These changes can help users navigate the content and bibliographical information.  This project has clearly come a long way in 23 years, and the developers have a sense of the improvements that need to be made so that this project flourishes and reaches its goals in the years to come.  
